IGNITE-13854 Add documentation for the cluster performance profiling tool (#8663)
apache/ignite: docs/_docs/monitoring-metrics/performance-statistics.adoc

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
= Performance statistics

WARNING: This feature is experimental and can be changed in future releases.

== Overview

Ignite provides a built-in tool for cluster profiling.

You can link:#collecting-statistics[collect] performance statistics from the cluster and then link:#building-the-report[build] the performance report.

== Collecting statistics

> To start and stop collecting statistics use the link:#jmx[JMX interface].

Author: Fixed.

> Each node collects performance statistics to the file in binary format. This file is placed under `Ignite_work_directory/perf_stat/` directory.

Author: Fixed.

The name mask is `node-{nodeId}-{index}.prf`.

Performance statistics files are used to build the report offline. Stop collecting statistics before creating the report.

Nodes use off-heap buffer to temporarily store serialized statistics. The writer thread flushes buffer to the file when the flush size is reached. See the link:#system-properties[properties] section for details.

> Each start of collecting statistics will create a new file on nodes. The index in the file name will be increased if such file exists:

Reviewer: Each statistics collection process creates a new file on nodes. Each next file has the same name with the corresponding index:

Author: Fixed.

    node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000.prf
    node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000-1.prf
    node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000-2.prf

== Building the report

Ignite provides a tool to generate the report from performance statistics files. The tool is published in the ignite-extensions repository: https://github.com/apache/ignite-extensions/tree/master/modules/performance-statistics-ext/[performance-statistics-ext, windows="_blank"].

> To build the performance report follow:

Reviewer: Follow these steps to build the performance report:

Author: Fixed.

1. Collect performance statistics files from all nodes under an empty directory. For example:

>     path_to_files

Reviewer: /path_to_files/

Author: Fixed.

        ├── node-162c7147-fef8-4ea2-bd25-8653c41fc7fa.prf
        ├── node-7b8a7c5c-f3b7-46c3-90da-e66103c00001.prf
        └── node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000.prf

2.  Run the script from the release package of the tool:

        performance-statistics-tool/build-report.sh path_to_files

The performance report will be created in the new directory under the performance statistics files path:
`path_to_files/report_yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss/`. Open `report_yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss/index.html` in the browser to see the report.

== Management

> 

Reviewer: You should not leave the empty line between two headings. Put something in there, for example:
'Here you'll learn about JMX interface and system properties.'

Author: Fixed.

=== JMX

You can manage the performance statistics collection via the `PerformanceStatisticsMBean` interface:

[cols="1,2",opts="header"]
|===
|Method | Description
|start() | Start collecting performance statistics in the cluster.
|stop() | Stop collecting performance statistics in the cluster.

> |started() | True if collecting performance statistics is started.

Reviewer: '...performance statistics collection is started'

Author: Fixed.

|===

=== System properties

[cols="2,1,1,3",opts="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default Value | Description

> |IGNITE_PERF_STAT_FILE_MAX_SIZE | Long | 32 Gb | Performance statistics maximum file size in bytes. Performance statistics will be stopped when the size exceeded.

Reviewer: 'Maximum performance statistics file size in bytes'
'Performance statistics collection will be stopped...'

Author: Fixed.

|IGNITE_PERF_STAT_BUFFER_SIZE | Integer | 32 Mb | Performance statistics off heap buffer size in bytes.

> |IGNITE_PERF_STAT_FLUSH_SIZE | Integer | 8 Mb | Performance statistics minimal batch size to flush in bytes.

Reviewer: 'Minimal performance statistics batch size to be flushed in bytes.'

Author: Fixed.

> |IGNITE_PERF_STAT_CACHED_STRINGS_THRESHOLD | Integer | 1024 | Performance statistics maximum cached strings threshold. String caching will stop on threshold excess.

Reviewer: 'Maximum performance statistics cached strings threshold. String caching will be stopped, when the threshold is exceeded.

Author: Fixed.

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

> = Performance statistics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Performance Statistics
```

WARNING: This feature is experimental and may change in future releases.

== Overview

Ignite provides a built-in tool for cluster profiling.

You can link:#collecting-statistics[collect] performance statistics from the cluster and then
link:#building-the-report[build] the performance report.

> == Collecting statistics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Collecting Statistics
```

link:#jmx[JMX interface] is used to start and stop statistics collecting.

Each node collects performance statistics in a binary file. This file is placed under

> `Ignite_work_directory/perf_stat/` directory. The name mask is `node-{nodeId}-{index}.prf`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `Ignite_work_directory/perf_stat/` directory. The name mask is `node-{nodeId}-{index}.prf`.
```

Performance statistics files are used to build the report offline.

Nodes use off-heap cyclic buffer to temporarily store serialized statistics. The writer thread flushes buffer to the

> file when the flush size is reached. Some statistics will be skipped if the buffer overflows due to a slow disk. See

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
file when the flush size is reached. Some statistics are skipped if the buffer overflows due to a slow disk. See
```

the link:#system-properties[properties] section for customization.

Each statistics collection process creates a new file on nodes. Each next file has the same name with the
corresponding index:

    node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000.prf
    node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000-1.prf

>     node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000-2.prf

Reviewer 2: 1. It would be better to say : "Each next file has the same name with the
corresponding index. See the examples below:"

2. I would put this group of names as a list

Author: Fixed.

> == Building the report

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Building the Report
```

Ignite provides a tool to generate the report from performance statistics files. The tool is published in the
ignite-extensions repository:
https://github.com/apache/ignite-extensions/tree/master/modules/performance-statistics-ext/[performance-statistics-ext,
windows="_blank"].

Follow these steps to build the performance report:

1. Stop collecting statistics and place files from all nodes under an empty directory. For example:

    /path_to_files/
        ├── node-162c7147-fef8-4ea2-bd25-8653c41fc7fa.prf
        ├── node-7b8a7c5c-f3b7-46c3-90da-e66103c00001.prf
        └── node-faedc6c9-3542-4610-ae10-4ff7e0600000.prf

2.  Run the script from the release package of the tool:

        performance-statistics-tool/build-report.sh path_to_files

> The performance report will be created in the new directory under the performance statistics files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The performance report is created in the new directory under the performance statistics files
```

path: `path_to_files/report_yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss/`. Open `report_yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss/index.html` in the browser to see
the report.

== Management

> Here you'll learn about JMX interface and system properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following section provides information on JMX interface and system properties.
```

=== JMX

You can manage the performance statistics collection via the `PerformanceStatisticsMBean` interface:

[cols="1,2",opts="header"]
|===
|Method | Description
|start() | Start collecting performance statistics in the cluster.
|stop() | Stop collecting performance statistics in the cluster.
|started() | True if performance statistics collection is started.
|===

=== System properties

[cols="2,1,1,3",opts="header"]
|===
|Property | Type | Default Value | Description
|IGNITE_PERF_STAT_FILE_MAX_SIZE | Long | 32 Gb | Maximum performance statistics file size in bytes. Performance

> statistics collection will be stopped when the file size exceeded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
statistics collection is stopped when the file size is exceeded.
```

|IGNITE_PERF_STAT_BUFFER_SIZE | Integer | 32 Mb | Performance statistics off heap buffer size in bytes.
|IGNITE_PERF_STAT_FLUSH_SIZE | Integer | 8 Mb | Minimal performance statistics batch size to be flushed in bytes.
|IGNITE_PERF_STAT_CACHED_STRINGS_THRESHOLD | Integer | 1024 | Maximum performance statistics cached strings threshold.

> String caching will be stopped, when the threshold is exceeded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
String caching is stopped when the threshold is exceeded.
```
